Steven Grant "Steve" Rogers is a World War II veteran, and is known as the world's first superhero. Born within Brooklyn, New York City, the young Rogers had suffered from numerous health 
problems, and upon America's entry into World War II, was rejected from military service despite several attempts to enlist. Determined to serve, he ultimately volunteered for the 
top-secret Super Soldier program, and the frail Rogers was then enhanced to the peak of human perfection. Rogers soon joined the war effort as the mascot, given the new moniker of Captain 
America, and later joined the war with a combat role after he single-handedly liberated captured Allied POWs.

From 1943 to 1945, Rogers attacked multiple HYDRA bases alongside his own team, the Howling Commandos, in another attempt to capture Red Skull, and recover the Tesseract. His famous World 
War II exploits had made him a living legend, and during this time he also formed a relationship with agent Peggy Carter. Despite seemingly losing his closest best friend and loyal teammate
, Bucky Barnes, during a mission, Rogers carried on to help the Allies win the war, but crashed into the Arctic during his final mission. His close friend Howard Stark spent time searching
 for his body. Rogers then spent 66 years encased into ice in suspended animation before Rogers was eventually found by S.H.I.E.L.D. in the early 21st century.

When he awoke, Rogers had found himself alone in a modern world that he hardly recognized with no idea what to do with his life. Following an Asgardian named Loki having stolen the 
Tesseract from S.H.I.E.L.D. and declaring war on humanity, Director Nick Fury enlisted Rogers' help in retrieving what he had once known as HYDRA's weapon, and also foiling Loki's plans. 
Joining the team dubbed as the Avengers which had been made up of some of the Earth's mightiest heroes, which included Howard Stark's son Tony, Rogers then played one of the key roles in 
the Battle of New York, successfully stopping the Chitauri Invasion of Earth, capturing Loki, and reacquiring the Tesseract while finding his place within this new world.

Joining S.H.I.E.L.D. as his way to maintain peace and justice with the aid of Black Widow, Captain America had come into a fierce conflict against the Winter Soldier who had seemingly 
assassinated Nick Fury. Having been blamed for the incident by Alexander Pierce, Rogers discovered that HYDRA, whom he thought had dissolved in 1945, had existed in secret as a parasite
 within S.H.I.E.L.D., and that they were planning to use Project Insight as a way to bring about a new world order, while also learning that the Winter Soldier was in fact his best friend 
Bucky Barnes, operating as the brainwashed assassin. Along Romanoff, Maria Hill and the Falcon, Rogers had ended the HYDRA Uprising. As the immediate threat of HYDRA was quelled, Rogers 
embarked on a quest to locate Barnes.

In the midst of Rogers search for Barnes, the Avengers assembled in order to eliminate the remnants of HYDRA, which prompted Rogers to abandon his own quest and rejoin all of his former 
teammates to help capture the Scepter and Baron Wolfgang von Strucker. After securing their victory, Rogers was almost immediately thrown into another crisis when Ultron, the new 
peacekeeping artificial intelligent program designed by Tony Stark and Bruce Banner, began a plot to eliminate humanity. Following a prolonged and brutal conflict in which the Vision's 
creation gave them an advantage, Ultron was defeated during the Battle of Sokovia, however the cost of their battle meant many of the Avengers disbanded, while Rogers and Romanoff stayed
 to lead the second incarnation of the Avengers.

While the Avengers conducted worldwide missions, they soon began tracking down Crossbones, only for Scarlet Witch to be blamed for innocent deaths when she failed to fully contain an 
explosion that Crossbones caused. Thaddeus Ross used the disaster to write the Sokovia Accords, but Rogers refused to sign due to moral disagreements. Rogers' problems increased more
 as Bucky Barnes resurfaced having seemingly caused a recent terrorist bombing, as Rogers chose to protect Barnes, which then lead to Ross sending Iron Man out to apprehend them both. 
Upon learning Helmut Zemo was to blame, Rogers fought against his former allies to find Zemo, only for Zemo's schemes to finally be completed as he revealed Barnes killed Stark's parents, 
resulting in Rogers going on the run and the Avengers falling apart due to Rogers and Stark's conflict.

Having saved his friends from the Raft, Rogers sent Barnes to gain help from T'Challa in Wakanda while he and all his allies then became vigilantes. However when Thanos and his Black 
Order attacked Earth seeking the final Infinity Stones, Rogers came out of hiding in order to protect Vision. In order to keep the Vision safe, Rogers had brought him to Wakanda while 
he and Black Panther's army held off the onslaught of Outriders sent down by Thanos. Despite their success with destroying Thanos' forces, when Thanos himself arrived on the planet, he
 effortlessly overpowered Rogers and all the other heroes and took the Mind Stone, killing Vision in the process. Despite all their attempts, Thanos completed his goal and wiped out half
 of the population of the universe, leaving as Rogers witnessed his best friend die again alongside his countless others. 