Thanos, referred to as the Dark Lord by his most loyal underlings and the Mad Titan by the galactic community, is a powerful, extremist, genocidal, psychopath, violent and tyrannical 
Titan warlord who rules over a distant region of space and commands two massive armies, known as the Chitauri and the Outriders, and a small group of followers known as the Black Order. 
His own main objective was to bring stability to the universe, as he believed its massive population would inevitably use up the universe's entire supply of resources and condemn it. 
However, his methodology to succeed was warped; through using the Infinity Stones, Thanos intended to harness their power to exterminate half of all life in the universe.

He spent many years hunting down these stones and his desire to achieve this ultimate goal is what led Thanos to forge new alliances with Loki and Ronan the Accuser in their respective 
campaigns against Earth and Xandar, promising to aid them in exchange for an Infinity Stone. Both alliances cost Thanos much of his resources, including one of the stones and the loyalty
 of his adopted daughters, Gamora and Nebula, and inadvertently resulting in the formation of the Avengers and the Guardians of the Galaxy. Fed up with all his subordinates' failures, 
Thanos opted to seek out the location of the Infinity Stones himself.

Thanos engaged in a ferocious warpath in order to obtain all of the Infinity Stones. In his journey, both he and his Black Order invaded Nidavellir, Xandar, Earth, and Knowhere.
 During this, he murdered Loki, along with many Asgardians, and even his beloved Gamora in order to obtain the Soul Stone. The primary aggressors fighting against Thanos became an 
alliance comprising the Avengers, Masters of the Mystic Arts, Guardians of the Galaxy, and the nation of Wakanda. Despite facing off against a powerfully combined opposition and the
 wrath of Thor, Thanos ultimately triumphed over his enemies and completed the Infinity Gauntlet, using it to finally complete his goal and erase half of all life within the universe
 at the snap of his fingers. 